ChangeLog			History file
MANIFEST
MANIFEST.SKIP
Makefile.PL
README
lib/DBD/mysql/Install.pm
lib/DBD/mSQL/Install.pm
lib/DBD/mSQL1/Install.pm
lib/ExtUtils/PerlPP.pm
mysql/lib/Bundle/DBD/mysql.pm	These are only distributed because PAUSE needs
mysql/lib/Mysql.pm		the .pm files being present. Instead modify
mysql/lib/Mysql/Statement.pm	the corresponding files in the dbd and nodbd
mysql/lib/DBD/mysql.pm		directories. They are automatically
mSQL/lib/Bundle/DBD/mSQL.pm	regenerated using ExtUtils::PerlPP.
mSQL/lib/Msql.pm
mSQL/lib/Msql/Statement.pm
mSQL/lib/DBD/mSQL.pm
dbd/Acknowledgements
dbd/Changes
dbd/Makefile.PL.in		Makefile generator for DBI drivers
dbd/bindparam.h
dbd/bundle.pm.in
dbd/constants.h
dbd/dbd.pm.in
dbd/dbd.xs.in
dbd/dbdimp.c
dbd/dbdimp.h
dbd/dbimon.in			The DBI monitor
dbd/myMsql.h			Header file for common Msql/Mysql sources
nodbd/nodbd.pm.in
nodbd/pmsql.in
nodbd/statement.pm.in
nodbd/typemap
tests/README		Tutorial for writing new tests
tests/00base.t		base DBI driver test: Loads DBI and driver
tests/10dsnlist.t	Low level DBI driver test: List data sources
tests/20createdrop.t	Test for creating and dropping tables
tests/30insertfetch.t	Test for insert, fetch and delete of rows
tests/40bindparam.t	Test of bind_col and bind_param methods
tests/40blobs.t		Test for working with blobs
tests/40listfields.t	Test for field oriented methods, e.g. NAME
tests/40nulls.t		Test for correct handling of NULL's
tests/40numrows.t	Test for row attributes, e.g. $sth->{rows}
tests/50chopblanks.t	Test for the 'ChopBlanks' attribute
tests/50commit.t	Test for commit, rollback and AutoCommit
tests/60leaks.t		Test script for various kinds of memory leaks
tests/lib.pl		Common declarations of the test suite
tests/ak-dbd.t		Miscellaneous DBI driver tests
tests/akmisc.t		Msql/Mysql only, also a valuable tutorial
tests/dbdadmin.t	Check $dbh->ping and 'admin' methods
tests/msql1.t		Test script for Msql only
tests/msql2.t		Test script for Msql with msql2 only
tests/mysql.t		Test script for Mysql only
tests/mysql2.t		Test script for Mysql only
tests/mSQL.dbtest	Core of testing mSQL database access
tests/mSQL.mtest	Core of testing mSQL module
tests/mSQL1.dbtest	Core of testing mSQL1 database access
tests/mSQL1.mtest	Core of testing mSQL1 module
tests/mysql.dbtest	Core of testing mysql database access
tests/mysql.mtest	Core of testing mysql module
tests/pNET.dbtest	Core of testing pNET database access (dummy)
tests/pNET.mtest	Core of testing pNET database access
tests/skeleton.test	Skeleton file for writing new tests
tests/Adabas.dbtest	These are here merely so that I can use CPAN
tests/Adabas.mtest	as my personal backup server ... ;-)
tests/CSV.dbtest
tests/CSV.mtest
