

=head1 NAME

dbback - Program to backup NexTone iServer databases and config files.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dbback> [B<-d>] [B<-h>] [B<-v>] [B<-f config_file>]


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dbback> is a program to backup NexTone iServer databases and config files.
The gdbm database is automatically backed up, along with config files I<server.cfg>
and I<firewall.xml> and the I<jserver-data> directory hierarchy. Its behavior is
governed by a configuration file it reads at program startup.

When B<dbback> is run, it automatically figures out if the iServer database is
newer than the last backed up copy of the database. If it is, then it creates a package of
the database and then backs up the snapshot on a remote machine.
 
B<dbback> uses the I<File Transfer Protocol>, ftp, as the transport mechanism to 
transfer files from one machine to another.

B<dbback> is capable of backing up the package to multiple machines as specified
in the B<config_file>. Packages can be full or partial. 

A word of caution. B<dbback.cfg> contains passwords in the clear. 

=head1 OPTIONS

B<-d> Start as daemon.  Not implemented yet.

B<-h> Help. Print user manual of dbback.

B<-v>  Version. Print out version and exit.

B<-f config_file> Use B<config_file> instead of default which is I<dbback.cfg>.

=head1 SYNTAX

=head2 Description how to write configuration files


B<ftpaddrs = >I<w.x.y.z & a.b.c.d & ...>

B<username = > I<userid1 & userid2 & ...>

B<passwd = >I<passwd1 & passwd2 & ...>

B<ftpdir = > I<dir1 & dir2 & ...>

B<logfile = >I< full_path_to_log_file >

B<disp = >I<rotate | overwrite > 

B<backup = >< all | cfg | db>


=head1 FILES

B</usr/local/nextone>

B</usr/local/nextone/bin/server.cfg>

B</usr/local/nextone/bin/dbback.cfg>

B</usr/local/nextone/bin/firewall.xml>

B</usr/local/nextone/bin/jserver-data/>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ftp>, L<iServer>, L<iView>


=head1 AUTHORS

Copyright (C)2001, NexTone Communications.

=cut

